docs/API/FINANCE.MD, before:

# Finance API
-----------------------------------

The Finance API provides methods for sending and receiving NXS coins (tokens) between users / accounts, creating accounts, and managing staking.


## `Named Shortcuts`

For each API method we support an alternative endpoint that includes the account name or register address at the end of the the URL.  This shortcut removes the need to include the account name or address as an additional parameter.

For example `finance/create/account/savings` is a shortcut to `finance/create/account?name=savings`.

Similarly `finance/get/account/5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9` is a shortcut to `finance/get/account?address=5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9`

The logic for resolving the shortcut to either a name or address is that if the data is 64 characters of hexadecimal then it will be assumed to be a register address.  Otherwise it will be considered a name.


## `Methods`

The following methods are currently supported by this API

[`create/account`](#createaccount)    
[`debit/account`](#debitaccount)    
[`credit/account`](#creditaccount)    
[`get/account`](#getaccount)    
[`list/accounts`](#listaccounts)    
[`get/stakeinfo`](#getstakeinfo)    
[`set/stake`](#setstake)    

-----------------------------------
***

# `create/account`

Create a new account for receiving NXS. The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the account name in the URL.  For example `/finance/create/account/savings` will resolve to `finance/create/account?name=savings`.


### Endpoint:

`/finance/create/account`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) the account should be created with. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`name` : A name to identify the account. A hash of the name will determine the register address. If no name is provided, a random 256-bit register hash will be generated.


### Example:

This example creates an account called "main".

```
{
    "pin": "1234",
    "session": "16953804956473956578",
    "name": "main"
}
```


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "txid": "f9dcd28bce2563ab288fab76cf3ee5149ea938c735894ce4833b55e474e08e8a519e8005e09e2fc19623577a8839a280ca72b6430ee0bdf13b3d9f785bc7397d",
    "address": "f2f71204bda6e6512d21c48eb4ca98db37a25c4d152afb284f3fc36760c0c717"
}
```


### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the account creation.

`address` : The register address for this  account. The address (or name that hashes to this address) is needed when creating crediting or debiting the account.


***

# `debit/account`

Deduct an amount of NXS from an account and send it to another account. The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the account name in the URL.  For example `/finance/debit/account/savings` will resolve to `finance/debit/account?name=savings`.


### Endpoint:

`/finance/debit/account`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) the account owner. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`name` : The name identifying the account to debit. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the account was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`address` : The register address of the account to debit. This is optional if the name is provided.

`amount` : The amount of NXS to debit.

`name_to` : The name identifying the account to send to. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format

`address_to` : The register address of the account to send to. This is optional if the name is provided.


### Example:

The following example shows the json payload for a debit of 10.5 NXS from an account called "main" (that itself was created by the sig chain logged into session "16953804956473956578") being sent to an account identified by the name "bob:savings".  In the name_to field, "bob" refers to the username of the account holder and "savings" is their NXS account.  If Bob is concerned about privacy he could have provided the register address of his token account instead

```
{
    "pin": "1234",
    "session": "16953804956473956578",
    "name": "main",
    "amount": 10.5,
    "name_to": "bob:savings"
}
```


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "txid": "f9dcd28bce2563ab288fab76cf3ee5149ea938c735894ce4833b55e474e08e8a519e8005e09e2fc19623577a8839a280ca72b6430ee0bdf13b3d9f785bc7397d"
}
```


### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the debit.

***

# `credit/account`

Increment an amount received from another NXS account to an account owned by your signature chain. The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the account name to credit in the URL.  For example `/finance/credit/account/savings` will resolve to `finance/credit/account?name=savings`.


### Endpoint:

`/finance/credit/account`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) owns the account. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`txid` : The transaction ID (hash) of the corresponding debit transaction for which you are creating this credit for.

`name` : The name identifying the account to credit. This is only required when crediting a coinbase or split payment transaction (where the receiving account is not included in the credit transaction) and is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the account was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`address` : The register address of the account to credit. This is only required when crediting a coinbase or split payment transaction (where the receiving account is not included in the credit transaction) and is optional if the name is provided.

`name_proof` : The name identifying the account that proves your ownership of the share of the debit. This is only required for split payments and is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the account was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`address_proof` : The register address of the account that proves your ownership of the share of the debit. This is only required for spit payments and is optional if the name is provided.


### Example:

The following example shows the json payload for a credit to an account called "savings" (that itself was created by the sig chain logged into session "16953804956473956578") identified by the name "bob:savings".  In the name field, "bob" refers to the username of the account holder and "savings" is their NXS account.

```
{
    "pin": "1234",
    "session": "16953804956473956578",
    "name": "bob:savings",
    "txid": "f9dcd28bce2563ab288fab76cf3ee5149ea938c735894ce4833b55e474e08e8a519e8005e09e2fc19623577a8839a280ca72b6430ee0bdf13b3d9f785bc7397d"
}
```


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "txid": "318b86d2c208618aaa13946a3b75f14472ebc0cce9e659f2830b17e854984b55606738f689d886800f21ffee68a3e5fd5a29818e88f8c5b13b9f8ae67739903d"
}
```


### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the credit.

***

# `get/account`

Retrieves information about a NXS account . The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the account name in the URL.  For example `/finance/get/account/savings` will resolve to `finance/get/account?name=savings`.

Additionally the API supports passing a field name in the URL after the account name, which will populate the `fieldname` parameter in the request and filter the response on that field.  For example `/finance/get/account/savings/balance` will resolve to `finance/get/account?name=savings&fieldname=balance`


### Endpoint:

`/finance/get/account`


### Parameters:

`name` : The name identifying the NXS account to retrieve. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the object was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session can be provided in conjunction with the name in order to deduce the register address of the object.  The `session` parameter is only required when a name parameter is also provided without a namespace in the name string.  For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`address` : The register address of the NXS account to retrieve. This is optional if the name is provided.

`fieldname`: This optional field can be used to filter the response to return only a single field from the account.


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "name": "main",
    "address": "5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9",
    "token": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "balance": 990
}
```


### Return values:

`owner` : The genesis hash of the signature chain that owns this account.

`created` : The UNIX timestamp when the account was created.

`modified` : The UNIX timestamp when the account was last modified.

`name` : The name identifying the account.  For privacy purposes, this is only included in the response if the caller is the owner of the account

`address` : The register address of the account.  The address is a hash based on the owners username and account name.

`token` : This will always be set to 0 for NXS accounts.

`balance` : The current balance of this account.

***

# `list/accounts`

This will list off all of the NXS accounts belonging to the currently logged in signature chain.


### Endpoint:

`/finance/list/accounts`


### Parameters:

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) owns the account. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.


### Return value JSON object:
```
[
    {
        "address": "f9ee3e63c845794d577d54c5087f0ff2f2053195bf007907e8134977bb1f1e24",
        "token": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "balance": 5000
    },
    {
        "address": "a74774dc075e59d03639b56da8c29736fe248888a43c6103060409dd11273417",
        "token": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "balance": 60
    }

]
```


### Return values:

`address` : The register address for the account

`token` : This will always be set to 0 for NXS accounts.

`balance` : The current balance of the token account.

***

# `get/stakeinfo`

This will retrieve account values and staking metrics for the trust account belonging to the currently logged in signature chain. If called when the stake minter is not running, this method only returns trust account values. Staking metrics will return 0.


### Endpoint:

`/finance/get/stakeinfo`


### Parameters:

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) owns the trust account. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`fieldname`: This optional field can be used to filter the response to return only a single field from the account.


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "address": "5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9",
    "balance": 150,
    "stake": 5000,
    "trust": 54322,
    "staking": true
    "stakerate": 1.97,
    "trustweight": 58.97,
    "blockweight": 47.62,
    "stakeweight": 54.03
}
```


### Return values:

`address` : The register address of the trust account. The address is a hash based on the owners username and account name.

`balance` : The current NXS balance of the trust account. This is general account balance that is not staked.

`stake` : The amount of NXS currently staked in the trust account.

`trust` : The current raw trust score of the trust account.

`staking` : Indicates whether staking is actively running for user account (when false, weight metrics will be 0).

`stakerate` : The current annual reward rate earned for staking as an annual percent.

`trustweight` : The current trust weight applied to staking as a percent of maximum.

`blockweight` : The current block weight applied to staking as a percent of maximum.

`stakeweight` : The current stake weight (trust weight and block weight combined) as a percent of maximum.

***

# `set/stake`

This sets the stake amount for a signature chain's trust account to the requested amount. If the new value is more than the current stake amount, it adds stake from the account balance. If the new value is less, it removes stake to the account balance (with appropriate trust penalty).


### Endpoint:

`/finance/set/stake`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for the signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) owns the trust account. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`amount` : The amount of NXS to add to stake.


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "txid": "318b86d2c208618aaa13946a3b75f14472ebc0cce9e659f2830b17e854984b55606738f689d886800f21ffee68a3e5fd5a29818e88f8c5b13b9f8ae67739903d"
}
```


### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the stake change.

***

Commit message:

Sig chain to UTXO and UTXO to sig chain

docs/API/FINANCE.MD, after:

# Finance API
-----------------------------------

The Finance API provides methods for sending and receiving NXS coins (tokens) between users / accounts, creating accounts, and managing staking.


## `Named Shortcuts`

For each API method we support an alternative endpoint that includes the account name or register address at the end of the the URL.  This shortcut removes the need to include the account name or address as an additional parameter.

For example `finance/create/account/savings` is a shortcut to `finance/create/account?name=savings`.

Similarly `finance/get/account/5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9` is a shortcut to `finance/get/account?address=5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9`

The logic for resolving the shortcut to either a name or address is that if the data is 64 characters of hexadecimal then it will be assumed to be a register address.  Otherwise it will be considered a name.


## `Methods`

The following methods are currently supported by this API

[`create/account`](#createaccount)    
[`debit/account`](#debitaccount)    
[`credit/account`](#creditaccount)    
[`get/account`](#getaccount)    
[`list/accounts`](#listaccounts)    
[`get/stakeinfo`](#getstakeinfo)    
[`set/stake`](#setstake)    

-----------------------------------
***

# `create/account`

Create a new account for receiving NXS. The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the account name in the URL.  For example `/finance/create/account/savings` will resolve to `finance/create/account?name=savings`.


### Endpoint:

`/finance/create/account`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) the account should be created with. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`name` : A name to identify the account. A hash of the name will determine the register address. If no name is provided, a random 256-bit register hash will be generated.


### Example:

This example creates an account called "main".

```
{
    "pin": "1234",
    "session": "16953804956473956578",
    "name": "main"
}
```


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "txid": "f9dcd28bce2563ab288fab76cf3ee5149ea938c735894ce4833b55e474e08e8a519e8005e09e2fc19623577a8839a280ca72b6430ee0bdf13b3d9f785bc7397d",
    "address": "f2f71204bda6e6512d21c48eb4ca98db37a25c4d152afb284f3fc36760c0c717"
}
```


### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the account creation.

`address` : The register address for this  account. The address (or name that hashes to this address) is needed when creating crediting or debiting the account.


***

# `debit/account`

Deduct an amount of NXS from an account and send it to another account or legacy UTXO address. The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the account name in the URL.  For example `/finance/debit/account/savings` will resolve to `finance/debit/account?name=savings`.


### Endpoint:

`/finance/debit/account`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) the account owner. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`name` : The name identifying the account to debit. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the account was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`address` : The register address of the account to debit. This is optional if the name is provided.

`amount` : The amount of NXS to debit.

`name_to` : The name identifying the account to send to. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format

`address_to` : The register address of the account to send to. This is optional if the name is provided.  The address_to can also contain a legacy UTXO address if sending from a signature chain account to a legacy address.


### Example:

The following example shows the json payload for a debit of 10.5 NXS from an account called "main" (that itself was created by the sig chain logged into session "16953804956473956578") being sent to an account identified by the name "bob:savings".  In the name_to field, "bob" refers to the username of the account holder and "savings" is their NXS account.  If Bob is concerned about privacy he could have provided the register address of his token account instead

```
{
    "pin": "1234",
    "session": "16953804956473956578",
    "name": "main",
    "amount": 10.5,
    "name_to": "bob:savings"
}
```


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "txid": "f9dcd28bce2563ab288fab76cf3ee5149ea938c735894ce4833b55e474e08e8a519e8005e09e2fc19623577a8839a280ca72b6430ee0bdf13b3d9f785bc7397d"
}
```


### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the debit.

***

# `credit/account`

Increment an amount received from another NXS account to an account owned by your signature chain. The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the account name to credit in the URL.  For example `/finance/credit/account/savings` will resolve to `finance/credit/account?name=savings`.


### Endpoint:

`/finance/credit/account`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) owns the account. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`txid` : The transaction ID (hash) of the corresponding debit transaction for which you are creating this credit for.  The transaction can also be a legacy transaction created from sendtoaddress or sendmany where the inputs are UTXO but the output is an account register address. 

`name` : The name identifying the account to credit. This is only required when crediting a coinbase or split payment transaction (where the receiving account is not included in the credit transaction) and is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the account was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`address` : The register address of the account to credit. This is only required when crediting a coinbase or split payment transaction (where the receiving account is not included in the credit transaction) and is optional if the name is provided.

`name_proof` : The name identifying the account that proves your ownership of the share of the debit. This is only required for split payments and is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the account was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`address_proof` : The register address of the account that proves your ownership of the share of the debit. This is only required for spit payments and is optional if the name is provided.


### Example:

The following example shows the json payload for a credit to an account called "savings" (that itself was created by the sig chain logged into session "16953804956473956578") identified by the name "bob:savings".  In the name field, "bob" refers to the username of the account holder and "savings" is their NXS account.

```
{
    "pin": "1234",
    "session": "16953804956473956578",
    "name": "bob:savings",
    "txid": "f9dcd28bce2563ab288fab76cf3ee5149ea938c735894ce4833b55e474e08e8a519e8005e09e2fc19623577a8839a280ca72b6430ee0bdf13b3d9f785bc7397d"
}
```


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "txid": "318b86d2c208618aaa13946a3b75f14472ebc0cce9e659f2830b17e854984b55606738f689d886800f21ffee68a3e5fd5a29818e88f8c5b13b9f8ae67739903d"
}
```


### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the credit.

***

# `get/account`

Retrieves information about a NXS account . The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the account name in the URL.  For example `/finance/get/account/savings` will resolve to `finance/get/account?name=savings`.

Additionally the API supports passing a field name in the URL after the account name, which will populate the `fieldname` parameter in the request and filter the response on that field.  For example `/finance/get/account/savings/balance` will resolve to `finance/get/account?name=savings&fieldname=balance`


### Endpoint:

`/finance/get/account`


### Parameters:

`name` : The name identifying the NXS account to retrieve. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the object was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session can be provided in conjunction with the name in order to deduce the register address of the object.  The `session` parameter is only required when a name parameter is also provided without a namespace in the name string.  For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`address` : The register address of the NXS account to retrieve. This is optional if the name is provided.

`fieldname`: This optional field can be used to filter the response to return only a single field from the account.


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "name": "main",
    "address": "5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9",
    "token": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "balance": 990
}
```


### Return values:

`owner` : The genesis hash of the signature chain that owns this account.

`created` : The UNIX timestamp when the account was created.

`modified` : The UNIX timestamp when the account was last modified.

`name` : The name identifying the account.  For privacy purposes, this is only included in the response if the caller is the owner of the account

`address` : The register address of the account.  The address is a hash based on the owners username and account name.

`token` : This will always be set to 0 for NXS accounts.

`balance` : The current balance of this account.

***

# `list/accounts`

This will list off all of the NXS accounts belonging to the currently logged in signature chain.


### Endpoint:

`/finance/list/accounts`


### Parameters:

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) owns the account. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.


### Return value JSON object:
```
[
    {
        "address": "f9ee3e63c845794d577d54c5087f0ff2f2053195bf007907e8134977bb1f1e24",
        "token": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "balance": 5000
    },
    {
        "address": "a74774dc075e59d03639b56da8c29736fe248888a43c6103060409dd11273417",
        "token": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "balance": 60
    }

]
```


### Return values:

`address` : The register address for the account

`token` : This will always be set to 0 for NXS accounts.

`balance` : The current balance of the token account.

***

# `get/stakeinfo`

This will retrieve account values and staking metrics for the trust account belonging to the currently logged in signature chain. If called when the stake minter is not running, this method only returns trust account values. Staking metrics will return 0.


### Endpoint:

`/finance/get/stakeinfo`


### Parameters:

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) owns the trust account. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`fieldname`: This optional field can be used to filter the response to return only a single field from the account.


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "address": "5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9",
    "balance": 150,
    "stake": 5000,
    "trust": 54322,
    "staking": true
    "stakerate": 1.97,
    "trustweight": 58.97,
    "blockweight": 47.62,
    "stakeweight": 54.03
}
```


### Return values:

`address` : The register address of the trust account. The address is a hash based on the owners username and account name.

`balance` : The current NXS balance of the trust account. This is general account balance that is not staked.

`stake` : The amount of NXS currently staked in the trust account.

`trust` : The current raw trust score of the trust account.

`staking` : Indicates whether staking is actively running for user account (when false, weight metrics will be 0).

`stakerate` : The current annual reward rate earned for staking as an annual percent.

`trustweight` : The current trust weight applied to staking as a percent of maximum.

`blockweight` : The current block weight applied to staking as a percent of maximum.

`stakeweight` : The current stake weight (trust weight and block weight combined) as a percent of maximum.

***

# `set/stake`

This sets the stake amount for a signature chain's trust account to the requested amount. If the new value is more than the current stake amount, it adds stake from the account balance. If the new value is less, it removes stake to the account balance (with appropriate trust penalty).


### Endpoint:

`/finance/set/stake`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for the signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) owns the trust account. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`amount` : The amount of NXS to add to stake.


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "txid": "318b86d2c208618aaa13946a3b75f14472ebc0cce9e659f2830b17e854984b55606738f689d886800f21ffee68a3e5fd5a29818e88f8c5b13b9f8ae67739903d"
}
```


### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the stake change.

***
