docs/API/SUPPLY.MD, before:

# Supply API
-----------------------------------

The Supply API provides functionality to support the ownership transfer requirements typical of a supply chain process. Items in the supply chain can be given a `data` value and this value can be updated over time.  Items are stored in an APPEND register, meaning that changes to the item are recorded in sequence in the register.  This in turn means that a history of changes to the `data` field, as well as the history of ownership of the item, can be obtained.  


## `Named Shortcuts`

For each API method we support an alternative endpoint that includes the item name or register address at the end of the the URL.  This shortcut removes the need to include the item name or address as an additional parameter.  

For example `supply/get/item/myitem` is a shortcut to `supply/get/item?name=myitem`.

Similarly `supply/get/item/5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9` is a shortcut to `supply/get/item?address=5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9`   

The logic for resolving the shortcut to either a name or address is that if the data is 64 characters of hexadecimal then it will be assumed to be a register address.  Otherwise it will be considered a name.  

## `Methods`

The following methods are currently supported by this API

[`create/item`](#createitem)   
[`get/item`](#getitem)   
[`update/item`](#updateitem)   
[`transfer/item`](#transferitem)   
[`claim/item`](#claimitem)   
[`list/item/history`](#listitemhistory)   



-----------------------------------
***

# `create/item`

This will create a new item, assigning ownership to the user logged in to the provided session.  The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the new asset name in the URI.  For example `supply/create/item/myitem` will resolve to `supply/create/item?name=myitem`.   


### Endpoint:

`/supply/create/item`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) the asset should be created with. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`name` : A name to identify the item. A hash of the name will determine the register address. If no name is provided, a random 256-bit register hash will be generated.

`data ` : The data to store in the item



### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "address": "e6d9529c4cb27857d6f86159f53f5fa5a06dd1de4a52c8a4260a6f287f41b77c",
    "txid": "70e5d8b6227d209fafe4c90ed0ed7e63b23b72dc1349c60b37a00ed06e18215d5fa384da1b6522e24cb1467b11b0b0e8ac4e9db8374f09718ab1218e8da33a11"
}
```

### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the item creation.

`address` : The register address for this item. The address (or name that hashes to this address) is needed for downstream transactions / api methods for this item.    


****

# `get/item`

This is the generic endpoint for retrieving an item from the object register. The Supply API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the item name (if known) in the URI.  For example `/supply/get/item/myitem` will resolve to `supply/get/item?name=myitem`.

Additionally the API supports passing a field name in the URL after the asset name, which will populate the `fieldname` parameter in the request.  For example `/supply/get/item/myitem/owner` will resolve to `supply/get/item?name=myitem&fieldname=owner`


### Endpoint:

`/supply/get/item`


### Parameters:

`name` : The name identifying the item. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the item was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session can be provided in conjunction with the name in order to deduce the register address of the item.  The `session` parameter is only required when a name parameter is also provided without a namespace in the name string.  For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`address` : The register address of the item. This is optional if the name is provided.

`fieldname`: This optional field can be used to filter the response to return only a single field from the item.


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "name": "myitem",
    "address": "70f49d996d53317cf2175b89efc2694b85c4ebede5fc468bedb860b3e4dada68",
    "created": 1560982537,
    "modified": 1560982615,
    "owner": "2be51edcd41a8152bfedb24e3c22ee5a65d6d7d524146b399145bced269aeff0",
    "data": "xxxxxx"
}

```
### Return values:

`created` : The UNIX timestamp when the item was created.

`modified` : The UNIX timestamp when the item was last modified.

`name` : The name identifying the item.  For privacy purposes, this is only included in the response if the caller is the owner of the item

`address` : The register address of the item.

`owner` : The genesis hash of the owner of the item.

`data` : The data stored in the item.


***


# `update/item`

This is the generic endpoint for updating the data value in an item.  The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the item name (if known) or register address in the URI.  For example `/supply/update/item/myitem` will resolve to `supply/update/item?name=myitem`.


### Endpoint:

`/supply/update/item`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) the supply should be created with. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`name` : The name identifying the supply to update. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the item was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`address` : The register address of the supply to update. This is optional if the name is provided.

`data` : The new value of the data field in this item




### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "txid": "27ef3f31499b6f55482088ba38b7ec7cb02bd4383645d3fd43745ef7fa3db3d1"
    "address": "5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9"
}
```

### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the item update.

`address` : The register address for this item.


****


# `transfer/item`

This will transfer ownership of an item.  This is a generic endpoint requiring the item name or address to be passed as parameters. The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the item name (if known) or register address in the URI.  For example `/supply/transfer/item/myitem` will resolve to `supply/transfer/item?name=myitem`.  


### Endpoint:

`/supply/transfer/item`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) owns the item. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`name` : The name identifying the item to be transferred. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the item was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`address` : The register address of the item to be transferred. This is optional if the name is provided.

`username` : The username identifying the user account (sig-chain) to transfer the item to. This is optional if the destination is provided.

`destination` : The genesis hash of the signature chain to transfer the the item to. This is optional if the username is provided.


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "txid": "27ef3f31499b6f55482088ba38b7ec7cb02bd4383645d3fd43745ef7fa3db3d1"
    "address": "5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9"
}
```

### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the item transfer.

`address` : The new register address for this item.   


****

# `claim/item`

Items that have been transferred need to be claimed by the recipient before the transfer is complete.  This method creates the claim transaction .  This is a generic endpoint requiring the transcation ID (hash) of the corresponding transfer transaction to be passed as a parameter. The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the transaction ID in the URI.  For example `/supply/transfer/item/27ef3f31499b6f55482088ba38b7ec7cb02bd4383645d3fd43745ef7fa3db3d1` will resolve to `supply/transfer/item?txid=27ef3f31499b6f55482088ba38b7ec7cb02bd4383645d3fd43745ef7fa3db3d1`.  


### Endpoint:

`/supply/claim/item`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) owns the item. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`txid` : The transaction ID (hash) of the corresponding item transfer transaction for which you are claiming.

`name` : This optional field allows the user to rename an item when it is claimed.  By default the name is copied from the previous owner and a Name record is created for the item in your user namespace.  If you already have an object for this name then you will need to provide a new name in order for the claim to succeed.  


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "claimed" : 
    [
        "address": "5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9"
    ],
    "txid": "27ef3f31499b6f55482088ba38b7ec7cb02bd4383645d3fd43745ef7fa3db3d1"
}
```

### Return values:

`claimed` : Array of addresses for each item that was claimed by this transaction

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the item transfer.

****


# `list/item/history`

This will get the history of changes to an item, including both the data and it's ownership. The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the item name (if known) or register address in the URI.  For example `/supply/list/item/history/myitem` will resolve to `/supply/list/item/history?name=myitem`.  

### Endpoint:

`/supply/list/item/history`


### Parameters:

`name` : The name identifying the item. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the item was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session can be provided in conjunction with the name in order to deduce the register address of the item.  The `session` parameter is only required when a name parameter is also provided without a namespace in the name string.  For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`address` : The register address of the item. This is optional if the name is provided.


### Return value JSON object:
```
[
    {
        "type": "CREATE",
        "name": "mysupplyitem",
        "checksum": 9070277379865698600,
        "owner": "bf501d4f3d81c31f62038984e923ad01546ff678e305a7cc11b1931742524ce1",
        "data": "0b6e657764617461696e746f",
        "modifed": 1546888868
    },
    {
        "type": "MODIFY",
        "name": "mysupplyitem",
        "checksum": 9060775569865698900,
        "owner": "5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9",
        "data": "0b6e657764617461696e746f",
        "modifed": 1546888999
    }
]
```

### Return values:

The return value is a JSON array of objects for each entry in the item's history:

`type` : The action that occurred - CREATE | MODIFY | TRANSFER | CLAIM

`owner` : The genesis hash of the signature chain that owned the item.

`modified` : The Unix timestamp of when the item was updated.

`checksum` : A checksum of the state register used for pruning.

`address` : The register address of the item

`name` : The name of the item

`data` : The data at this point in the history




***

Commit message:

Added expiration to debit/transfer transactions

docs/API/SUPPLY.MD, after:

# Supply API
-----------------------------------

The Supply API provides functionality to support the ownership transfer requirements typical of a supply chain process. Items in the supply chain can be given a `data` value and this value can be updated over time.  Items are stored in an APPEND register, meaning that changes to the item are recorded in sequence in the register.  This in turn means that a history of changes to the `data` field, as well as the history of ownership of the item, can be obtained.  


## `Named Shortcuts`

For each API method we support an alternative endpoint that includes the item name or register address at the end of the the URL.  This shortcut removes the need to include the item name or address as an additional parameter.  

For example `supply/get/item/myitem` is a shortcut to `supply/get/item?name=myitem`.

Similarly `supply/get/item/5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9` is a shortcut to `supply/get/item?address=5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9`   

The logic for resolving the shortcut to either a name or address is that if the data is 64 characters of hexadecimal then it will be assumed to be a register address.  Otherwise it will be considered a name.  

## `Methods`

The following methods are currently supported by this API

[`create/item`](#createitem)   
[`get/item`](#getitem)   
[`update/item`](#updateitem)   
[`transfer/item`](#transferitem)   
[`claim/item`](#claimitem)   
[`list/item/history`](#listitemhistory)   



-----------------------------------
***

# `create/item`

This will create a new item, assigning ownership to the user logged in to the provided session.  The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the new asset name in the URI.  For example `supply/create/item/myitem` will resolve to `supply/create/item?name=myitem`.   


### Endpoint:

`/supply/create/item`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) the asset should be created with. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`name` : A name to identify the item. A hash of the name will determine the register address. If no name is provided, a random 256-bit register hash will be generated.

`data ` : The data to store in the item



### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "address": "e6d9529c4cb27857d6f86159f53f5fa5a06dd1de4a52c8a4260a6f287f41b77c",
    "txid": "70e5d8b6227d209fafe4c90ed0ed7e63b23b72dc1349c60b37a00ed06e18215d5fa384da1b6522e24cb1467b11b0b0e8ac4e9db8374f09718ab1218e8da33a11"
}
```

### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the item creation.

`address` : The register address for this item. The address (or name that hashes to this address) is needed for downstream transactions / api methods for this item.    


****

# `get/item`

This is the generic endpoint for retrieving an item from the object register. The Supply API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the item name (if known) in the URI.  For example `/supply/get/item/myitem` will resolve to `supply/get/item?name=myitem`.

Additionally the API supports passing a field name in the URL after the asset name, which will populate the `fieldname` parameter in the request.  For example `/supply/get/item/myitem/owner` will resolve to `supply/get/item?name=myitem&fieldname=owner`


### Endpoint:

`/supply/get/item`


### Parameters:

`name` : The name identifying the item. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the item was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session can be provided in conjunction with the name in order to deduce the register address of the item.  The `session` parameter is only required when a name parameter is also provided without a namespace in the name string.  For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`address` : The register address of the item. This is optional if the name is provided.

`fieldname`: This optional field can be used to filter the response to return only a single field from the item.


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "name": "myitem",
    "address": "70f49d996d53317cf2175b89efc2694b85c4ebede5fc468bedb860b3e4dada68",
    "created": 1560982537,
    "modified": 1560982615,
    "owner": "2be51edcd41a8152bfedb24e3c22ee5a65d6d7d524146b399145bced269aeff0",
    "data": "xxxxxx"
}

```
### Return values:

`created` : The UNIX timestamp when the item was created.

`modified` : The UNIX timestamp when the item was last modified.

`name` : The name identifying the item.  For privacy purposes, this is only included in the response if the caller is the owner of the item

`address` : The register address of the item.

`owner` : The genesis hash of the owner of the item.

`data` : The data stored in the item.


***


# `update/item`

This is the generic endpoint for updating the data value in an item.  The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the item name (if known) or register address in the URI.  For example `/supply/update/item/myitem` will resolve to `supply/update/item?name=myitem`.


### Endpoint:

`/supply/update/item`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) the supply should be created with. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`name` : The name identifying the supply to update. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the item was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`address` : The register address of the supply to update. This is optional if the name is provided.

`data` : The new value of the data field in this item




### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "txid": "27ef3f31499b6f55482088ba38b7ec7cb02bd4383645d3fd43745ef7fa3db3d1"
    "address": "5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9"
}
```

### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the item update.

`address` : The register address for this item.


****


# `transfer/item`

This will transfer ownership of an item.  This is a generic endpoint requiring the item name or address to be passed as parameters. The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the item name (if known) or register address in the URI.  For example `/supply/transfer/item/myitem` will resolve to `supply/transfer/item?name=myitem`.  


### Endpoint:

`/supply/transfer/item`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) owns the item. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`name` : The name identifying the item to be transferred. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the item was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`address` : The register address of the item to be transferred. This is optional if the name is provided.

`username` : The username identifying the user account (sig-chain) to transfer the item to. This is optional if the destination is provided.

`destination` : The genesis hash of the signature chain to transfer the the item to. This is optional if the username is provided.

`expires` : This optional field allows callers to specify an expiration for the transfer transaction. The expires value is the `number of seconds` from the transaction creation time after which the transaction can no longer be claimed by the recipient.  Conversely, when you apply an expiration to a transaction, you are unable to reverse the transaction until after the expiration time.  


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "txid": "27ef3f31499b6f55482088ba38b7ec7cb02bd4383645d3fd43745ef7fa3db3d1"
    "address": "5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9"
}
```

### Return values:

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the item transfer.

`address` : The new register address for this item.   


****

# `claim/item`

Items that have been transferred need to be claimed by the recipient before the transfer is complete.  This method creates the claim transaction .  This is a generic endpoint requiring the transcation ID (hash) of the corresponding transfer transaction to be passed as a parameter. The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the transaction ID in the URI.  For example `/supply/transfer/item/27ef3f31499b6f55482088ba38b7ec7cb02bd4383645d3fd43745ef7fa3db3d1` will resolve to `supply/transfer/item?txid=27ef3f31499b6f55482088ba38b7ec7cb02bd4383645d3fd43745ef7fa3db3d1`.  


### Endpoint:

`/supply/claim/item`


### Parameters:

`pin` : The PIN for this signature chain.

`session` : For multi-user API mode (configured with multiuser=1) the session is required to identify which session (sig-chain) owns the item. For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`txid` : The transaction ID (hash) of the corresponding item transfer transaction for which you are claiming.

`name` : This optional field allows the user to rename an item when it is claimed.  By default the name is copied from the previous owner and a Name record is created for the item in your user namespace.  If you already have an object for this name then you will need to provide a new name in order for the claim to succeed.  


### Return value JSON object:
```
{
    "claimed" : 
    [
        "address": "5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9"
    ],
    "txid": "27ef3f31499b6f55482088ba38b7ec7cb02bd4383645d3fd43745ef7fa3db3d1"
}
```

### Return values:

`claimed` : Array of addresses for each item that was claimed by this transaction

`txid` : The ID (hash) of the transaction that includes the item transfer.

****


# `list/item/history`

This will get the history of changes to an item, including both the data and it's ownership. The API supports an alternative endpoint that can include the item name (if known) or register address in the URI.  For example `/supply/list/item/history/myitem` will resolve to `/supply/list/item/history?name=myitem`.  

### Endpoint:

`/supply/list/item/history`


### Parameters:

`name` : The name identifying the item. This is optional if the address is provided.  The name should be in username:name format.  However, if the item was created in the callers namespace (their username), then the username can be omitted from the name if the `session` parameter is provided (as we can deduce the username from the session)

`session` : For multi-user API mode, (configured with multiuser=1) the session can be provided in conjunction with the name in order to deduce the register address of the item.  The `session` parameter is only required when a name parameter is also provided without a namespace in the name string.  For single-user API mode the session should not be supplied.

`address` : The register address of the item. This is optional if the name is provided.


### Return value JSON object:
```
[
    {
        "type": "CREATE",
        "name": "mysupplyitem",
        "checksum": 9070277379865698600,
        "owner": "bf501d4f3d81c31f62038984e923ad01546ff678e305a7cc11b1931742524ce1",
        "data": "0b6e657764617461696e746f",
        "modifed": 1546888868
    },
    {
        "type": "MODIFY",
        "name": "mysupplyitem",
        "checksum": 9060775569865698900,
        "owner": "5efc8a9437d93e894defd50f8ba73a0b2b5529cc593d5e4a7ea413022a9c35e9",
        "data": "0b6e657764617461696e746f",
        "modifed": 1546888999
    }
]
```

### Return values:

The return value is a JSON array of objects for each entry in the item's history:

`type` : The action that occurred - CREATE | MODIFY | TRANSFER | CLAIM

`owner` : The genesis hash of the signature chain that owned the item.

`modified` : The Unix timestamp of when the item was updated.

`checksum` : A checksum of the state register used for pruning.

`address` : The register address of the item

`name` : The name of the item

`data` : The data at this point in the history




***
